---
title: What is Creative Coding
module: 1
---

# What is Creative Coding?

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6W-cvH44mVo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

*Creative Coding* is a broad term that describes the process of using code, low-level technology, and computers as artistic and design tools. This includes the creation of artistic outputs, such as; computer generated images/movies/music/sculptures, interactive installations, games, etc. This term is also used to describe artistic processes that may not result in an output, but instead engage the creator, participant, or normal person to contemplate, re-contextualize, or examine some known truth, experience, or way they previously saw the world.

## What Creative Coding is *NOT*

Creative coding is not scary! It may not be something you have done before, but we will all get there together. The goal of this course is not to teach you how to build a database to manage student accounts at some imaginary school (Unless you are interested in this. I can help you do that too, but let's get through the basics first). You may learn the skills necessary for such a task through this course. In fact, you could go on to many more traditional computer science based disciplines after learning how to code. But, this course and the discipline of creative coding is instead intended to marry art, creativity, expression, and code together (and hopefully gaming - which I contend is also art). The goal is to teach artists, gamers, game designers, game programmers, etc, how to adapt new technologies to their goals. The goal is to teach media art students how to problem solve through sub-problems and smaller blocks, that can then be built back together just like in traditional art problems. The goal is to explore what expression means when using an abstract tool such as code to engage with artistic processes.  The best part is that you already do it, you just may not realize it yet.


## Overview

Here are two videos for more on creative coding.


#### The Art of Creative Coding | Off Book | PBS Digital Studios

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eBV14-3LT-g" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

#### Dan Shiffman - Codeland - Creative Coding: An art and code showcase - NYC 2017

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/68JUaszsvmU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
